[SYCL][DOC] Add extension for annotated_ptr class and its properties (#5755)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/proposed/sycl_ext_oneapi_annotated_ptr.asciidoc

= sycl_ext_oneapi_annotated_ptr

:source-highlighter: coderay
:coderay-linenums-mode: table

// This section needs to be after the document title.
:doctype: book
:toc2:
:toc: left
:encoding: utf-8
:lang: en

:blank: pass:[ +]

// Set the default source code type in this document to C++,
// for syntax highlighting purposes.  This is needed because
// docbook uses c++ and html5 uses cpp.
:language: {basebackend@docbook:c++:cpp}

// This is necessary for asciidoc, but not for asciidoctor
:cpp: C++
:dpcpp: DPC++

== Introduction
This extension introduces a pointer wrapper class that provides a mechanism to
attach compile-time constant information to a pointer in a manner that allows
the compiler to reliably maintain and analyze the information.

== Notice

> Copyright (c) 2021 Intel Corporation.  All rights reserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Intel Corporation.  All rights reserved.
```

NOTE: Khronos(R) is a registered trademark and SYCL(TM) and SPIR(TM) are
trademarks of The Khronos Group Inc.  OpenCL(TM) is a trademark of Apple Inc.
used by permission by Khronos.

== Status

Working Draft

This is a preview extension specification, intended to provide early access to
a feature for review and community feedback. When the feature matures, this
specification may be released as a formal extension.

Because the interfaces defined by this specification are not final and are
subject to change they are not intended to be used by shipping software
products.

== Version

Built On: {docdate} +
Revision: 2

== Contact

Abhishek Tiwari, Intel (abhishek2 'dot' tiwari 'at' intel 'dot' com)

== Contributors

Abhishek Tiwari, Intel +
Gregory Lueck, Intel +
Jason Sewall, Intel +
Jessica Davies, Intel +
Joe Garvey, Intel +
John Pennycook, Intel +
Michael Kinsner, Intel +
Roland Schulz, Intel

== Dependencies

This extension is written against the SYCL 2020 specification, revision 4.

> It also depends on the `sycl_ext_oneapi_properties` extension.

Reviewer: This should be a link to the extension.

== Overview

[NOTE]
====
In this document, we use the shortened form `annotated_ptr` to refer to the
proposed `sycl::ext::oneapi::annotated_ptr` class.
====

The purpose of this document is to clearly describe and specify `annotated_ptr`
and related concepts, types, and mechanisms, and to give examples and context
for their usage.

=== Motivation

When compiling a program with pointer operations, it is often desirable to
attach certain information such as optimization hints or functional directives
onto the pointer itself.

Any acceptable mechanism to attach such information should meet the following requirements:
  1. It should not be burdensome for users to use the mechanism.
  2. It should be reasonably scalable and not add significant burden on compiler developers to maintain the mechanism.
  3. It should preserve the attached information through most uses of the pointer.

> For example, consider the following case: We want to specify some compile-time constant information `I` for a pointer. One possible method to do so is for the compiler to provide a special function for reading to and writing from the pointer and have this function convey `I` to the compiler at the call site where the read or write occurs.

Reviewer: To aid with future review and changes, we typically recommend wrapping long lines at 80 columns.

That is, users would convert code that looks like:
```c++
{
  SomeType* a;
  ...
  *a = some_val;
  ...
  read_val = *a
}
```

To code that looks like:
```c++
{
  SomeType* a;
  ...
  __special_store_with_annotation(a, some_val, I /*some compile time constant information*/);
  ...
  __special_load_with_annotation(a, &read_val, I /*some compile time constant information*/);
}
```

This mechanism does not meet requirements (1) and (2) listed above because:

  * Users have to replace all their pointer read/write code with special function calls.

>   * If the set or type of information represented by `I` evolves over time, it requires creating and/or updating these special functions and the underlying compiler implementation.

Reviewer 2: I'm not convinced this is a lot of work to maintain.  You'd have to do some work in the compiler optimizer or backend to parse the new information but your frontend probably doesn't have to change if __special_load_with_annotation and the format of I is defined carefully for extensibility.  I think your first argument, above, is more convincing and alone is enough to disqualify this approach.  I'd drop this second, weaker argument.

Author: Updated.

Another mechanism could be that the compiler provide attributes which can be applied to the pointer declaration to convey some compile-time constant information. In this case users would change their code to:
```cpp
{
  [[special_annotations::use_case_x_attribute(I)]] SomeType* a; // 'I' is the compiler time constant information being annotated on 'a'
  ...
  *a = some_val;
  ...
  read_val = *a
}
```
However, this mechanism fails to meet requirements (2) and (3) listed above since:

  * Adding new attributes for can add non-trivial attribute creation overheads for compiler developers. With growing set of attributes, there is an associated burden of maintaining them and of preparing diagnostic checks.

>   * Compilers are not required to preserve information propagated as attributes. Hence this method is only suitable for hints, and not functional directives. Further, the compiler may not be able to observe a particular pointer load/store call and successfully trace back to the declaration to deduce which annotation was applied to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Compilers are not required to preserve information propagated as attributes. Hence this method is only suitable for hints, and not functional directives. Further, from a given load/store call a compiler may not be able to successfully trace back to the declaration to deduce which annotation was applied to it.
```

=== Feature test macro

This extension provides a feature-test macro as described in the core SYCL
specification, Section 6.3.3 "Feature test macros". Therefore, an
implementation supporting this extension must predefine the macro
`SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_ANNOTATED_PTR` to one of the values defined in the table below.
Applications can test for the existence of this macro to determine if the
implementation supports this feature, or applications can test the macro's
value to determine which of the extension's features
that the implementation supports.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value |Description
|1     |Initial extension version
|===

=== Representation of `annotated_ptr`

`annotated_ptr` is a class template, parameterized by the type of the underlying allocation `T`, and a list of properties `PropertyListT`.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = property_list<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  ...
----

`PropertyListT` enables properties to be associated with an `annotated_ptr`.
Properties may be specified for an `annotated_ptr` to provide semantic
modification or optimization hint information.

> Example uses of a property are:

Reviewer 2: This is only showing one use, perhaps say:

```suggestion
An example of how a property might be used is shown below:
```

Or perhaps: "Here's an example of how a property could be used:"

[source,c++]
----
using namespace sycl::ext::oneapi;
{
  sycl::queue q;

>   annotated_ptr<int, property_list_t<align<4>>> kernel_arg; // alignment of the pointer in bytes specified using the property 'align'

Reviewer 2: This example has UB because it dereferences an uninitialized pointer in the device code.  Could you change it as follows to make it possible defined:

```suggestion
  annotated_ptr<int, property_list_t<align<4>>> kernel_arg = ... // alignment of the pointer in bytes specified using the property 'align'
```

  q.submit([=]{
    *kernel_arg = *kernel_arg * 2;
  });
  ...
}
----

The section below and the table that follows, describe the constructors, member functions and factory methods for `annotated_ptr`.
The section below refers to an `annotated_ref` class which is described in the section following this one.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = property_list_t<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  public:
    using reference = annotated_ref<T, PropertyListT>;

    annotated_ptr() noexcept = default;

>     explicit annotated_ptr(T *Ptr) noexcept = default;

Author: Added: `explicit annotated_ptr(T *Ptr, const properties<PropertyListT> &)`.

    annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr const &) noexcept = default;

    // Conversion function

>     template <class U, class P> explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<U, P> const &) noexcept;

Author: Updated and added:
```c++
template <T, typename PropertyListU, typename PropertyListV>
    explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListU> const &,
      properties<PropertyListV>)
```
In the description I have stated that the properties are a union however I am not sure if this signature is correct yet.

    template<typename propertyT>
    static constexpr bool has_property();

    // The return type is an unspecified internal class used to represent
    // instances of propertyT
    template<typename propertyT>
    static constexpr /*unspecified*/ get_property();

  private:
    T *Ptr;
  };
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi

----

[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Functions |Description

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr() noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The underlying pointer is initialized to `nullptr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
explicit annotated_ptr(T *Ptr);
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The underlying pointer is initialized with `Ptr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr const &) noexcept = default;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object from another `annotated_ptr` with the same template parameterization object.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template <class U, class P> explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<U, P> const & ConvertFrom);
----
|

> Constructs the `annotated_ptr` object from the `ConvertFrom` object if the template parameter types are compatible. For example, if the properties on one of the operands conflict with the others then the compiler should issue a compile time error.

Reviewer 3: This wording seems to imply that it is OK to remove a property from `ConvertFrom` when constructing the `this` object.  That seems wrong to me.  It seems like it should be an error unless the `PropertyListT` template parameter is a superset of the `P` template parameter.

In addition, do we really want to support the case when `T` and `U` are different?

Author: Corrected the wording and no I do not think we need to support the case where T and U are different. Updated.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
reference operator*() const;
----
|

> Returns a reference wrapper which can be used to read or write to the underlying pointer. Reads/Writes using the reference will retain the annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns an `annotated_ref` reference wrapper which can be used to read or write to the underlying pointer. Reads/Writes using the reference will retain the annotations.
```

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
reference operator[](std::ptrdiff_t Index) const;
----
|

> Returns an `annotated_ref` reference wrapper to the object at offset `Index`.

Reviewer 2: Should you say that this operator exists only if T::operator[] is defined?

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator+(unsigned long long Offset) const;
----
|

> Returns an `annotated_ptr` that points to the location `Offset` distance away from the underlying pointer.

Reviewer 2: This "'Offset' distance away" wording might be confusing.  Should we say 'Offset' elements away?  Or perhaps we should define it in closer terms to the implementation and say "Returns an 'annotated_ptr' that points to this[Offset].

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
std::ptrdiff_t operator-(annotated_ptr FromPtr) const;
----
|
Returns the distance between the underlying pointer and the pointer encapsulated by `FromPtr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
operator bool() const noexcept;
----
|
Returns `false` if the underlying pointer is null, returns `true` otherwise.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
operator T*() noexcept = delete;
operator const T*() const noexcept = delete;
----
|
Implicit conversion to a pointer to the underlying type `T` is not supported.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
T* get() noexcept;
const T* get() const noexcept;
----
|
Returns the underlying raw pointer. The raw pointer will not retain the annotations.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator=(const T*) noexcept;
----
|

> Allows assignment from an pointer to type `T`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allows assignment from a pointer to type `T`.
```

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator=(annotated_ptr const&) noexcept;
----
|
Allows assignment from an `annotated_ptr` with the same parameterization.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator++() noexcept;
----
|
Prefix increment operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator++() noexcept;
----
|
Postfix increment operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator--() noexcept;
----
|
Prefix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator--() noexcept;
----
|
Postfix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr bool has_property();
----

> | Returns true if the `PropertyListT` contains the property specified by `propertyT`. Returns false if it does not.

Reviewer 2: To make this consistent with the wording in the properties spec you might want to say:
```suggestion
| Returns true if `PropertyListT` contains the property identified by the property class `propertyT`. Returns false if it does not.
```

Author: Updated both `has_property` and `get_property` description based on the text in the properties spec.

Available only if `sycl::is_property_of_v<propertyT, sycl::ext::oneapi::annotated_ptr>` is true.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr auto get_property();
----

> | Returns an object of the class used to represent the value of property `propertyT`.

Reviewer 2: Same as above

Available only if `sycl::is_property_of_v<propertyT, sycl::ext::oneapi::annotated_ptr>` is true.
|===

=== Add new reference wrapper class `annotated_ref` to enable `annotated_ptr`

The purpose of the `annotated_ref` class template is to provide reference wrapper semantics. It enables the implementation to preserve the properties on loads from and stores to the pointers.

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = property_list_t<>>
class annotated_ref {
  public:
    annotated_ref(T *);
    operator T() noexcept;
    operator const T() const noexcept;
    void operator=(const T &);
  private:
    T *Ptr;
  };
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi
```

Member Functions are described in the table below
[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Functions |Description

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ref(T * InputPtr);
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ref` object. Does not allocate new storage. The underlying pointer is initialized to `InputPtr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
operator T() noexcept;
operator const T() const noexcept;
----
|

> Implicit conversion to underlying type.

Author: Not an issue now since we are not supporting implicit conversion with `annotated_ptr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
void operator=(const T &);
----
|

> Enables assignment to the underlying pointer.

Author: Already corrected for `annotated_ref`.

|===

=== Properties for `annotated_ptr` variables

See the extension `sycl_ext_oneapi_annotated_ptr_properties` for the full list of supported properties.

== Issues

1) [RESOLVED] Should we allow implicit conversion to base class by default?

> *Ans: No.*

Reviewer: I think it would be useful to give a bit more information here for posterity.  If we just say "No" then somebody might want to reopen the question.  Just a one line explanation like "It's too error-prone" or "Users may accidentally lose compile-time properties" would be sufficient.

It's also unclear to me if this issue is related to `annotated_ptr`, `annotated_ref` or both.

Author: Added more info. Added clarification in section title.

2) [RESOLVED] How do we support `operator->`?
*Ans: Not with the initial release.*

3) [RESOLVED] Can `sycl::atomic_ref` be used with `annotated_ref`?

> *Ans: Yes. This discussion is an implementation detail discussion and does not impact the spec.*

Reviewer 3: Can you remind me why this is an implementation detail and not part of the extension API?  What is the syntax you would use to do an atomic operation on the value referenced by `annotated_ptr`?

Author: Hi Greg, I think my earlier answer was incorrect. `atomic_ref` will not work with `annotated_ref` as is since `atomic_ref` restricts the types it can take. If we want, we can create a sycl extension for `atomic_ref` to support `annotated_ref`. The implementation complexity will depend on how we chose to implement `annotated_ref`: via builtins or via pointer annotations.

= sycl_ext_oneapi_annotated_ptr

:source-highlighter: coderay
:coderay-linenums-mode: table

// This section needs to be after the document title.
:doctype: book
:toc2:
:toc: left
:encoding: utf-8
:lang: en

:blank: pass:[ +]

// Set the default source code type in this document to C++,
// for syntax highlighting purposes.  This is needed because
// docbook uses c++ and html5 uses cpp.
:language: {basebackend@docbook:c++:cpp}

// This is necessary for asciidoc, but not for asciidoctor
:cpp: C++
:dpcpp: DPC++

== Notice

Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Intel Corporation.  All rights reserved.

NOTE: Khronos(R) is a registered trademark and SYCL(TM) and SPIR(TM) are
trademarks of The Khronos Group Inc.  OpenCL(TM) is a trademark of Apple Inc.
used by permission by Khronos.

== Contact

> Abhishek Tiwari, Intel (abhishek2 'dot' tiwari 'at' intel 'dot' com)

Author: Updated.

  successfully trace back to the declaration to deduce which annotation was
  applied to it.

The `annotated_ptr` class described in this document is a class template that
encapsulates a pointer. The template accepts a list of compile-time constant
properties. The implementation of the class defined here should preserve the
information provided as compile-time constant properties through all uses of the
pointer unless noted otherwise.

=== Representation of `annotated_ptr`

`annotated_ptr` is a class template, parameterized by the type of the underlying
allocation `T`, and a list of properties `PropertyListT`.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  ...
----

`PropertyListT` enables properties to be associated with an `annotated_ptr`.
Properties may be specified for an `annotated_ptr` to provide semantic
modification or optimization hint information.

Here's an example of how a property could be used:

[source,c++]
----
using namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental;
{
  sycl::queue q;
  // A pointer to an integer

>   auto ptr = ...

Author: Corrected.

  // alignment of the pointer in bytes specified using the property 'alignment'
  auto arg_a = annotated_ptr(ptr, properties{alignment<4>});

  q.submit([=]{
    ...
    *arg_a = (*arg_a) * 2;
  });
  ...
}
----

The section below and the table that follows, describe the constructors and
member functions for `annotated_ptr`.

NOTE: `annotated_ptr` is a device copyable type since it is a wrapper over

> a pointer and pointers are trivially copyable.

Author: Yes that is better. Updated.

The section below refers to an `annotated_ref` class which is described in the
section following this one.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  public:
    using reference = annotated_ref<T, PropertyListT>;

    annotated_ptr() noexcept;
    annotated_ptr(T *Ptr, const properties<PropertyListT> &P = properties{}) noexcept;

    template <typename T2, typename P> explicit annotated_ptr(

>       annotated_ptr<T2, P> const &) noexcept;

Author: Updated to be consistent.

    template <typename T2, typename PropertyListU, typename PropertyListV>
    explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T2, PropertyListU> const &,
      properties<PropertyListV>) noexcept;

>     annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr const &) noexcept;

Author: From [CPP reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/classes#Trivially_copyable_class), yes the copy constructor should be trivial and [in order for it to be trivial](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/copy_constructor#Trivial_copy_constructor), it must be implicitly defined or defaulted.

    reference operator*() const noexcept;

    reference operator[](std::ptrdiff_t) const noexcept;

    annotated_ptr operator+(size_t) const noexcept;
    std::ptrdiff_t operator-(annotated_ptr) const noexcept;

    operator bool() const noexcept;

    // Implicit conversion is not supported
    operator T*() noexcept = delete;
    operator const T*() const noexcept = delete;

    T* get() noexcept;
    const T* get() const noexcept;

    annotated_ptr& operator=(const T*) noexcept;
    annotated_ptr& operator=(annotated_ptr const&) noexcept;

    annotated_ptr& operator++() noexcept;
    annotated_ptr operator++(int) noexcept;

    annotated_ptr& operator--() noexcept;
    annotated_ptr operator--(int) noexcept;

    template<typename propertyT>
    static constexpr bool has_property();

    // The return type is an unspecified internal class used to represent
    // instances of propertyT
    template<typename propertyT>
    static constexpr /*unspecified*/ get_property();

  private:

>     /* unspecified */

Author: Removed.

  };
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental

----

[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Functions |Description

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr() noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized to `nullptr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr(T *Ptr, const properties<PropertyListT> &P = properties{}) noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized with `Ptr`. `P` is used to specify the
`PropertyListT` type on the class.

The new property set `PropertyListT` must contain all properties from `P`,
and if any common property takes a value, the value must be the same.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template <typename T2, typename P> explicit annotated_ptr(
  annotated_ptr<T2, P> const & ConvertFrom);
----
|
Constructs the `annotated_ptr` object from the `ConvertFrom` object if
the list of properties in `PropertyListT` is a superset of the list of

> properties in `P`.

Author: We wanted this for use cases where the pointer types are different:
```
template<typename src, typename dst, typename props> annotated_ptr<dst, props> ptr_cast_while_preserving_annotations(annotated_ptr<src, props> src) { annotated_ptr<dst, props> temp{src.get()}; return temp; }
```

 I added a note about the types being implicitly convertible.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template <typename T2, typename PropertyListU, typename PropertyListV>
explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T2, PropertyListU> const &Ptr,
  properties<PropertyListV> P) noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized with `Ptr`. `PropertyListU` and

> `PropertyListV` will be combined to construct `PropertyListT`.

Author: Yes that is the behavior we want. I am using the word merge and stating that having different values for same properties will result in an error.

> `PropertyListV` will be combined to construct `PropertyListT`.

Reviewer 3: I think the description should say that duplicates with the same value are allowed if that is the intent.  For example:

> The new `PropertyListT` is the union of all properties contained by `PropertyListU` and `PropertyListV`.  If there are any common properties in the two lists with different values, a compile-time error is triggered.  Common properties with the same value (or no value) are allowed, resulting in only a single copy of the property in `PropertyListT`.

> `PropertyListV` will be combined to construct `PropertyListT`.

Author: I don't how the implementation works for this right now. I don't know if duplicates will be present or not. I will leave the wording as is now and am adding a Issue stating that this should be clarified once the implementation is clear. From user perspective I suppose not having duplicates is better.

> `PropertyListV` will be combined to construct `PropertyListT`.

Reviewer 3: Actually, I don't think the application has any way to observe whether the merged property list has duplicates removed.  The only query APIs are `has_property` and `get_property`.  Those don't provide any way for the application to tell whether the same property exists more than once.

Given this, can we close the open issue and change the wording to:

> The new `PropertyListT` is the union of all properties contained by `PropertyListU` and `PropertyListV`. If there are any common properties in the two lists with different values, a compile-time error is triggered. Common properties with the same value (or no value) are allowed.

> `PropertyListV` will be combined to construct `PropertyListT`.

Author: Updated and issue closed.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr const &) noexcept = default;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object from another `annotated_ptr` with the same
type and properties.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
reference operator*() const;
----
|
Returns an `annotated_ref` reference wrapper which can be used to read or write
to the underlying pointer. Reads/Writes using the reference will retain the
annotations.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
reference operator[](std::ptrdiff_t Index) const;
----
|
Returns an `annotated_ref` reference wrapper to the object at offset `Index`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator+(size_t Offset) const;
----
|
Returns an `annotated_ptr` that points to `this[Offset]`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
std::ptrdiff_t operator-(annotated_ptr FromPtr) const;
----
|
Returns the distance between the underlying pointer and the pointer encapsulated
by `FromPtr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----

> operator bool() const noexcept;

Author: Yes that seems safer. Updated.

----
|
Returns `false` if the underlying pointer is null, returns `true` otherwise.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
/*unspecified*/ operator T*() noexcept = delete;
/*unspecified*/ operator const T*() const noexcept = delete;
----
|
Implicit conversion to a pointer to the underlying type is not supported.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
T* get() noexcept;

> const T* get() const noexcept;

Author: That makes sense, updated. Can't remember why I wrote it like this.

----
|
Returns the underlying raw pointer. The raw pointer will not retain the
annotations.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----

> annotated_ptr& operator=(const T*) noexcept;

Author: Good catch! Corrected.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator--(int) noexcept;
----
|
Postfix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr bool has_property();
----
| 
Returns true if `PropertyListT` contains the property with property key class
`propertyT`. Returns false if it does not.

Available only when `propertyT` is a property key class.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr auto get_property();
----
| 
Returns a copy of the property value contained in `PropertyListT`. Must produce
a compile error if `PropertyListT` does not contain a property with the
`propertyT` key.

Available only if `propertyT` is the property key class of a compile-time
constant property.
|===

=== Add new reference wrapper class `annotated_ref` to enable `annotated_ptr`

The purpose of the `annotated_ref` class template is to provide reference
wrapper semantics. It enables properties to be preserved on loads from and
stores to annotated_ptrs.

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ref {

>   public:

Author: The assignment operator was already present for `annotated_ref`. Added a copy constructor.

>   public:

Reviewer 3: There is an assignment operator to `T`, but there's no assignment operator to `annotated_ref`.

>   public:

Author: Added the assignment operator to `annotated_ref` and defaulted it.

    annotated_ref(T *);
    operator T() noexcept;
    operator const T() const noexcept;
    void operator=(const T &);
  private:

>     T *Ptr;

Author: Removed.

  };
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental
```

Member Functions are described in the table below
[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Functions |Description

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ref(T * InputPtr);
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ref` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized to `InputPtr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
operator T() noexcept;

> operator const T() const noexcept;

Author: Corrected.

----
|
Reads the object of type `T` that is referenced by this wrapper, applying the
annotations when the object is loaded from memory.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----

> void operator=(const T &);

Author: Corrected.

properties that can be supported with `annotated_ptr`. Runtime properties
are not supported.

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental {
struct alignment_key {
  template<int K>
  using value_t = property_value<alignment_key, std::integral_constant<int, K>>;
};

struct runtime_aligned_key {
  using value_t = property_value<runtime_aligned_key>;
};

template<int K>
inline constexpr alignment_key::value_t<K> alignment;
inline constexpr runtime_aligned_key::value_t runtime_aligned;

template<>
struct is_property_key<alignment_key> : std::true_type {};
template<>
struct is_property_key<runtime_aligned_key> : std::true_type {};

template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  alignment_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  runtime_aligned_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental
```
--
[options="header"]
|====
| Property | Description
|`alignment`
|
Indicates the alignment of the pointer in bytes. Alignment cannot be smaller

> than the size of type `T`.

Author: Updated.

|`runtime_aligned`
|
Informs the compiler that the pointer has at least the default alignment for a
pointer allocated through the SYCL runtime. This is always safe to apply to any

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Author: Joe explained that keeping this looser wording enables more use cases, example:
```
auto ptr = malloc_shared(...)
auto ptr2 = ptr + (kAlignment * N);
```
In this case even `ptr2` can safely retain the `runtime_aligned` property. Note that this is legal only if the user offset `ptr1` by some multiple of the alignment value. If we renamed this property to something like "usm_returned" maybe then we can't do this.

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Reviewer 3: How does the application determine what the "default alignment" is? Unless there is some way to query this, I don't see how we can enable the use case you show.

In another conversation, we are considering adding the following extension:

* A query which returns the set of supported alignments for USM allocations.
* A runtime property that is accepted by the USM allocation functions, which allows the application to choose the alignment of the allocated memory.  The user would be responsible for choosing one of the supported alignments, otherwise the allocation request will fail.

What would "default alignment" mean if we do this?  If the application uses the property to request an alignment, is the pointer still "default aligned"?

I'm hesitant to define the `runtime_aligned` property unless / until we can define it precisely.

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Author: Yes it seems we need the mechanism to query the alignment. We can add this property later when we have all pieces ready to support these use-cases.

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Reviewer 3: OK.  Since this is the only property in the `sycl_ext_oneapi_kernel_arg_properties` extension, we can remove that extension from this PR and add it later.

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Author: No this `runtime_aligned` property is part of the core `annotated_ptr` extension. You are thinking of `restrict` which is the only property in `sycl_ext_oneapi_kernerl_arg_properties`

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Author: Removed the property and opened an issue for it in the Issues section.

> pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

Reviewer 3: > No this runtime_aligned property is part of the core annotated_ptr extension. You are thinking of restrict which is the only property in sycl_ext_oneapi_kernerl_arg_properties

Oh right, my mistake.  We can still add the property later.  We'll just update the feature-test version of the specification when we add it.

properties. The implementation of the class defined here should preserve the
information provided as compile-time constant properties through all uses of the
pointer unless noted otherwise.

=== Representation of `annotated_ptr`

`annotated_ptr` is a class template, parameterized by the type of the underlying
allocation `T`, and a list of properties `PropertyListT`.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  ...
----

`PropertyListT` enables properties to be associated with an `annotated_ptr`.
Properties may be specified for an `annotated_ptr` to provide semantic
modification or optimization hint information.

Here's an example of how a property could be used:

[source,c++]
----
using namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental;
{
  sycl::queue q;
  // A pointer to an integer
  auto ptr = ...
  // alignment of the pointer in bytes specified using the property 'alignment'
  auto arg_a = annotated_ptr(ptr, properties{alignment<4>});

  q.submit([=]{
    ...
    *arg_a = (*arg_a) * 2;
  });
  ...
}
----

The section below and the table that follows, describe the constructors, member

> functions and factory methods for `annotated_ptr`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think the current version has any factory methods.

The section below refers to an `annotated_ref` class which is described in the
section following this one.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  public:
    using reference = annotated_ref<T, PropertyListT>;

    annotated_ptr() noexcept;

>     explicit annotated_ptr(T *Ptr, const properties<PropertyListT> &) noexcept;

Reviewer 2: Can you explain why this constructor should be explicit?

    annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr const &) noexcept;

>     template <T, typename P> explicit annotated_ptr(

Reviewer 2: This first template parameter seems wrong.  Doesn't this mean that this constructor is templated on a _value_ of type T?  It also contradicts the definition in the table below.  This should probably be either:
```
template<typename P>
explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T,P> const &) noexcept;
```
or
```
template<typename T2, typename P>
explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T2,P> const &) noexcept;
```
depending on if you want to enable casting between pointers with different types through this method.  If you do allow pointers of different types then this method would be able to address the casting situation I mentioned earlier.

      annotated_ptr<T, P> const &) noexcept;

>     template <T, typename PropertyListU, typename PropertyListV>

Reviewer 2: Same concern as above.

>     explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListU> const &,

Reviewer 2: Can you provide a deduction guide that allows users to use this constructor with "auto"?

Author: Brox is working on this.

      properties<PropertyListV>) noexcept;

    reference operator*() const noexcept;
    reference operator[](std::ptrdiff_t) const noexcept;
    annotated_ptr operator+(size_t) const noexcept;
    std::ptrdiff_t operator-(annotated_ptr) const noexcept;

    operator bool() const noexcept;

    // Implicit conversion is not supported
    operator T*() noexcept = delete;
    operator const T*() const noexcept = delete;

    T* get() noexcept;
    const T* get() const noexcept;

    annotated_ptr& operator=(const T*) noexcept;
    annotated_ptr& operator=(annotated_ptr const&) noexcept;

    annotated_ptr& operator++() noexcept;
    annotated_ptr operator++(int) noexcept;
    annotated_ptr& operator--() noexcept;
    annotated_ptr operator--(int) noexcept;

    template<typename propertyT>
    static constexpr bool has_property();

    // The return type is an unspecified internal class used to represent
    // instances of propertyT
    template<typename propertyT>
    static constexpr /*unspecified*/ get_property();

>   private:

Reviewer 2: This should probably be left as an implementation detail even though it's the obvious way to implement it.

    T *Ptr;
  };
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi

----

[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===

> |Functions |Description

Reviewer 2: Please put the entries in this table in the same order as the code above.  It would make it easier to read.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr() noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized to `nullptr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
explicit annotated_ptr(T *Ptr, const properties<PropertyListT> &P) noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized with `Ptr`. `P` is used to specify the
`PropertyListT` type on the class.

The new property set `PropertyListT` must contain all properties from `P`,
and if any common property takes a value, the value must be the same.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should P be optional?  That would allow for code like this to be written very succinctly (but I'm not sure how important this use case is):

```
template<typename props>
void foo(int *a, annotated_ptr<int, props> b) {
  // Create an annotated version of a with the same properties as b:
  decltype(b) annotated_a{a};
}
```

Reviewer 2: I thought of a variant that might be more realistic: casting an annotated_ptr from one type to another while keeping the annotations:

```
template<typename src, typename dst, typename props>
annotated_ptr<dst, props> ptr_cast_while_preserving_annotations(annotated_ptr<src, props> src) {
  annotated_ptr<dst, props> temp{src.get()};
  return temp;
}
```

a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator++() noexcept;
----
|
Postfix increment operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator--() noexcept;
----
|
Prefix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator--() noexcept;
----
|
Postfix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr bool has_property();
----
| 
Returns true if the property list contains the property with property key class
`propertyT`. Returns false if it does not.

Available only when `propertyT` is a property key class.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr auto get_property();
----
| 
Returns a copy of the property value contained in the property list
`PropertyListT`. Must produce a compile error if `PropertyListT` does not
contain a property with the `propertyT` key.

Available only if `propertyT` is the property key class of a compile-time
constant property.
|===

=== Add new reference wrapper class `annotated_ref` to enable `annotated_ptr`

The purpose of the `annotated_ref` class template is to provide reference

> wrapper semantics. It enables the implementation to preserve the properties on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wrapper semantics. It enables properties to be preserved on
```

> loads from and stores to the pointers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
loads from and stores to annotated_ptrs.
```

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ref {
  public:
    annotated_ref(T *);
    operator T() noexcept;
    operator const T() const noexcept;
    void operator=(const T &);
  private:
    T *Ptr;
  };
} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi
```

Member Functions are described in the table below
[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Functions |Description

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ref(T * InputPtr);
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ref` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized to `InputPtr`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
operator T() noexcept;
operator const T() const noexcept;
----
|
Reads the object of type `T` that is referenced by this wrapper, applying the
annotations when the object is loaded from memory.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
void operator=(const T &);
----
|
Writes an object of type `T` to the location referenced by this wrapper,
applying the annotations when the object is stored to memory.

|===

=== Properties

> Below is a list of compile-time constant properties supported with

Reviewer 4: If we want to allow properties with runtime values in the future then this should also supply a non-static `get_property` overload. It could be added with the corresponding properties, but it would be cleaner to have it ready.

> Below is a list of compile-time constant properties supported with

Reviewer 2: I don't think annotated_ptr should support runtime properties.  Then those properties would have to be kept around in an additional member variable in the struct.  We want the class to be a wrapper around only a pointer.

  using value_t = property_value<alignment_key, std::integral_constant<int, K>>;
};

struct restrict_key {
  using value_t = property_value<restrict_key>;
};

struct runtime_aligned_key {
  using value_t = property_value<runtime_aligned_key>;
};

template<int K>
inline constexpr alignment_key::value_t<K> alignment;
inline constexpr restrict_key::value_t restrict;
inline constexpr runtime_aligned_key::value_t runtime_aligned;

template<>
struct is_property_key<alignment_key> : std::true_type {};
template<>
struct is_property_key<restrict_key> : std::true_type {};
template<>
struct is_property_key<runtime_aligned_key> : std::true_type {};

template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  alignment_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  restrict_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  runtime_aligned_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
} // namespace experimental::oneapi::ext::sycl
```
--
[options="header"]
|====
| Property | Description
|`alignment`
|

> Sets the alignment of the pointer address in bytes.

Reviewer 2: The property doesn't set the alignment.  It merely indicates the alignment to the compiler.  It is an unchecked assertion by the programmer.  The only situation in which it is a directive is when passed to a USM allocation function.

Author: Confirmed that Jessica has mentioned this in her spec, thanks Jessica!

|`restrict`
|

> Informs the compiler that writes to the address pointed to by this pointer

Reviewer 2: This is much more restrictive than we originally intended.  In previous discussion we intended for restrict to only have meaning on kernel arguments.  Is this an intentional change?

are only done by this pointer or pointers derived from it.

|`runtime_aligned`
|

> Informs the compiler that the pointer has the alignment as determined by the

Reviewer 2: This wording is quite vague.  How about this:

Informs the compiler that the pointer has at least the default alignment for a pointer allocated through the SYCL runtime.  This is always safe to apply to any pointer returned by a SYCL memory allocation function.

};

struct runtime_aligned_key {
  using value_t = property_value<runtime_aligned_key>;
};

template<int K>
inline constexpr alignment_key::value_t<K> alignment;
inline constexpr kernel_arg_restrict_key::value_t kernel_arg_restrict;
inline constexpr runtime_aligned_key::value_t runtime_aligned;

template<>
struct is_property_key<alignment_key> : std::true_type {};
template<>
struct is_property_key<kernel_arg_restrict_key> : std::true_type {};
template<>
struct is_property_key<runtime_aligned_key> : std::true_type {};

template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  alignment_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  kernel_arg_restrict_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
template<typename T, typename PropertyListT>
struct is_property_key_of<
  runtime_aligned_key, annotated_ptr<T, PropertyListT>> : std::true_type {};
} // namespace experimental::oneapi::ext::sycl
```
--
[options="header"]
|====
| Property | Description
|`alignment`
|
Sets the alignment of the pointer address in bytes.

|`kernel_arg_restrict`
|

> Informs the compiler that the pointer kernel argument cannot alias with other

Author: TODO: update to:
```
writes to the address pointed to by this pointer is only done by this pointer or pointers derived from it
````

onto the pointer itself.

Any acceptable mechanism to attach such information should meet the following
requirements:

  1. It should not be burdensome for users to use the mechanism.
  2. It should be reasonably scalable and not add significant burden on compiler
  developers to maintain the mechanism.
  3. It should preserve the attached information through most uses of the
  pointer.

For example, consider the following case: We want to specify some compile-time
constant information `I` for a pointer. One possible method to do so is for the
compiler to provide a special function for reading to and writing from the
pointer and have this function convey `I` to the compiler at the call site where
the read or write occurs.

That is, users would convert code that looks like:
```c++
{
  SomeType* a;
  ...
  *a = some_val;
  ...
  read_val = *a
}
```

To code that looks like:
```c++
{
  SomeType* a;
  ...
  __special_store_with_annotation(a, some_val,
    I /*some compile time constant information*/);
  ...
  __special_load_with_annotation(a, &read_val,
    I /*some compile time constant information*/);
}
```

This mechanism does not meet requirement (1) listed above because:

>   * Users have to replace all their pointer read/write code with special

Reviewer 2: It's not wrong, but it's a little weird to make this a bullet.

  function calls.

> Another mechanism could be that the compiler provide attributes which can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another mechanism could be that the compiler provides attributes which can be
```

underlying pointer is initialized with `Ptr`. `P` is used to specify the
`PropertyListT` type on the class.

The new property set `PropertyListT` must contain all properties from `P`,
and if any common property takes a value, the value must be the same.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template <typename T2, typename P> explicit annotated_ptr(
  annotated_ptr<T2, P> const & ConvertFrom);
----
|
Constructs the `annotated_ptr` object from the `ConvertFrom` object if
the list of properties in `PropertyListT` is a superset of the list of
properties in `P`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template <typename T2, typename PropertyListU, typename PropertyListV>
explicit annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr<T2, PropertyListU> const &Ptr,
  properties<PropertyListV> P) noexcept;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object. Does not allocate new storage. The
underlying pointer is initialized with `Ptr`. `PropertyListU` and
`PropertyListV` will be combined to construct `PropertyListT`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr(annotated_ptr const &) noexcept = default;
----
|
Constructs an `annotated_ptr` object from another `annotated_ptr` with the same

> template parameterization object.

Reviewer 2: This is a weird way to word it.  I suggest:
```suggestion
properties.
```

----
|
Implicit conversion to a pointer to the underlying type is not supported.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
T* get() noexcept;
const T* get() const noexcept;
----
|
Returns the underlying raw pointer. The raw pointer will not retain the
annotations.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator=(const T*) noexcept;
----
|
Allows assignment from a pointer to type `T`.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator=(annotated_ptr const&) noexcept;
----
|
Allows assignment from an `annotated_ptr` with the same parameterization.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator++() noexcept;
----
|
Prefix increment operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator++(int) noexcept;
----
|
Postfix increment operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr& operator--() noexcept;
----
|
Prefix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
annotated_ptr operator--(int) noexcept;
----
|
Postfix decrement operator.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr bool has_property();
----
| 

> Returns true if the property list contains the property with property key class

Reviewer 2: "property list" is no longer the official name and the template argument to this function is named "propertyT" so I'd reword this as:

```suggestion
Returns true if `PropertyListT` contains the property with `propertyT` key class.  
```

Reviewer 2: Can you make this same change in the annotated_arg spec?

`propertyT`. Returns false if it does not.

Available only when `propertyT` is a property key class.

// --- ROW BREAK ---
a|
[source,c++]
----
template<typename propertyT>
static constexpr auto get_property();
----
| 

> Returns a copy of the property value contained in the property list

Reviewer 2: As above
```suggestion
Returns a copy of the property value contained in `PropertyListT`
```

`PropertyListT`. Must produce a compile error if `PropertyListT` does not
contain a property with the `propertyT` key.

Available only if `propertyT` is the property key class of a compile-time
constant property.
|===

=== Add new reference wrapper class `annotated_ref` to enable `annotated_ptr`

The purpose of the `annotated_ref` class template is to provide reference
wrapper semantics. It enables properties to be preserved on loads from and
stores to annotated_ptrs.

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ref {
  public:

>     annotated_ref(T *);

Reviewer 2: Is there a legitimate case for users to create their own annotated_refs from a raw pointer?  If this is only for use in the SYCL headers should this constructor be private?  Marking annotated_ptr as a friend would still allow it to call the constructor.

Author: Removed.

  Further, from a given load/store call a compiler may not be able to
  successfully trace back to the declaration to deduce which annotation was
  applied to it.

The `annotated_ptr` class described in this document is a class template that
encapsulates a pointer. The template accepts a list of compile-time constant
properties. The implementation of the class defined here should preserve the
information provided as compile-time constant properties through all uses of the
pointer unless noted otherwise.

=== Representation of `annotated_ptr`

`annotated_ptr` is a class template, parameterized by the type of the underlying
allocation `T`, and a list of properties `PropertyListT`.

[source,c++]
----
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental {
template <typename T, typename PropertyListT = properties<>>
class annotated_ptr {
  ...
----

`PropertyListT` enables properties to be associated with an `annotated_ptr`.
Properties may be specified for an `annotated_ptr` to provide semantic
modification or optimization hint information.

`T` can be any type except the following types or a structure containing one of
the following types: sycl::accessor, sycl::stream, sycl::sampler, and

> sycl::half_type.

Reviewer 3: I was not thinking that we needed this restriction here.  Do we?

Author: On second thought no. I was thinking from the perspective of sycl special class before. But pointer to these types are just that - pointers. So no decompositions are needed. I don't think we need these restrictions. Removed.

Made me wonder though: what does it mean to have a pointer to an accessor? Or to a stream? Are such arguments useful in any cases?

Reviewer 3: It does seem weird to have a pointer to an accessor, but I can't think of any reason to disallow it.

|

> Indicates the alignment of the pointer in bytes.

Reviewer 5: What if the specified alignment is less than the size of the type being pointed to? Do we want to issue an error in that case?

Author: Yes, that makes sense to me.

Author: Reverted this note. See Greg's comment on this below. We want to not say this to account for cases with aggregates.
